docs/source/configuration.rst, before:

.. Configuration format descriptions for TUV-x

Configuration
=============

The TUV-x configuration JSON file is used to set up TUV-x to calculate
the set of photolysis rate constants and/or dose rates that you are
interested in.
It also allows you to specify details about how these
are calculated (solver options, which absorbing species should be
considered in determining the radiation field, etc.) and the
conditions they should be calculated for (temperature, solar flux,
solar zenith angle, etc.).

Configuration data for specific components of TUV-x may
include paths to needed data files. These paths can be absolute
or relative to the folder you run the ``tuvx`` executable in.
(There are no hard-coded paths to data files in the TUV-x source
code; they are all specified in the JSON configuration file.)

TUV-x JSON data include a number of required and optional
elements.
Users can additionally decorate the JSON file with
custom elements by using a "``__``" prefix for the custom key.
TUV-x will ignore all key-value pairs whose key includes this
prefix.
These can be useful for including notes, descriptions,
or references.
They can also be useful if TUV-x is embedded
in an application that needs to attach specific information
to TUV-x objects.

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "tuv object": {
       "a TUV-x required key": "foo",
       "a TUV-x optional key": "sometimes bar",
       "__my note": "TUV-x will ignore this",
       "__user provided data" : {
         "will TUV-x ignore this object?": true
       }
     }
   }


The TUV-x configuration JSON file has six objects:

.. code-block:: JSON
   :force:

   {
     "O2 absorption": { ... },
     "grids": { ... },
     "profiles": { ... },
     "radiative transfer": { ... },
     "photolysis rate constants": { ... },
     "dose rates": { ... }
   }


We use elipses (``...``) here and throughout this section for
JSON data that are described in a separate sub-section of this
page.

The first four objects
(:ref:`O2 absorption <configuration-o2-absorption>`,
:ref:`grids <configuration-grids>`,
:ref:`profiles <configuration-profiles>`, and
:ref:`radiative transfer <configuration-radiation>`)
are required for every TUV-x run.
The last two objects
(:ref:`photolysis rate constants <configuration-photolysis>` and
:ref:`dose rates <configuration-dose-rates>`)
are optional and allow the user to optionally
calculate only photolysis rates, only dose rates, or both.

The following sections describe each of these six JSON
object.

.. _configuration-o2-absorption:

O2 Absorption
-------------

This object describes how TUV-x calculates the special
Lyman--Alpha and Shumann--Runge absorption bands for O2.
It has a single required data member that provides the
path to a text file containing parameters needed in
these calculations:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "O2 absorption": {
     "cross section parameters file": "data/cross_sections/O2_parameters.txt"
   }


This file is a hold-over from the original TUV and has
not yet been converted into a NetCDF file. It can be found
in the location shown above relative to the ``tuv-x/`` root
directory.


.. _configuration-grids:

Grids
-----

Grids define axes along which TUV-x data are distributed or calculations
are performed.
Depending on your use case, certain grids may or may not
need to be included.
At minimum, you will need to include a ``height``
grid (units: ``km``) that defines the vertical grid TUV-x operates on,
and a ``wavelength`` grid (units: ``nm``), that defines the wavelength
bins for which optical property data is provided.
For stand-alone TUV-x, you will also need to provide a ``time`` grid
(units: ``hours``) that provides the time of day for which to calculate
the photolysis and/or dose rates.

There are two key-value pairs that are required for every grid, ``type``
and ``units``.
The ``type`` is a string that describes how the grid data is specified,
and must be one of ``equal interval``,
``from csv file``, and ``from config file``.
These types are described below.
The ``units`` are the units for the grid data and are used to ensure
consistency throughout the configuration data and
with expectations in the code.

Equal Interval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This grid type is defined by start and end points, and a cell width:


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my grid": {
     "type": "equal interval",
     "units": "foos",
     "begins at": 12.0,
     "ends at": 112.0,
     "cell delta": 10.0
   }


From CSV File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This grid type is defined by data from a text file.
The first line of the file is ignored and can be used for header info.
The remaining lines should each include a single real number
that will be used to define the grid.
Values should be monotonic and increasing.


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my grid": {
     "type": "from csv file",
     "units": "bars",
     "file path": "path/to/file"
   }


From Config File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The values for each cell of this grid type are included directly in
the configuration file.
Values sholud be monotonic and increasing.


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my grid": {
     "type": "from config file",
     "units": "foos",
     "values": [ 1.0, 7.0, 12.5 ]
   }


.. _configuration-profiles:

Profiles
--------

Profiles define parameters along a :ref:`grid <configuration-grids>`.
Similar to grids, depending on your use case, certain profiles may
or may not need to be included.
At minimum, you will need to include the key-value pairs listed
in the following table.

=========================  ==============
profile                    grid
=========================  ==============
``temperature``            ``height``
``solar zenith angle``     ``time``
``Earth-Sun distance``     ``time``
``surface albedo``         ``wavelength``
``extraterrestrial flux``  ``wavelength``
``air``                    ``height``
=========================  ==============

The air profile defines the number density of air
as a function of height.

In addition to the required profiles, profiles of atmospheric
constituents that affect the radiation field by absorbing or
scattering light should be included when these exist as
:ref:`radiators <configuration-radiators>` in the
:ref:`radiative transfer <configuration-radiation>` object.

As with grids, there are two key-value pairs required for every
profile, ``type`` and ``units``.
The ``units`` are the units for the profile data and are used to ensure
consistency throughout the configuration data and
with expectations in the code.
The ``type`` is a string that describes how the profile data is specified.
There are two general-use types that can be used for any profile,
``from csv file`` and ``from config file``.
In addition, there are several profile types that are useful for describing
specific types of profiles, ``O2``, ``O3``, ``air``, ``solar zenith angle``,
``Earth-Sun distance``, and ``extraterrestrial flux``.

The specific profile types are described below.

From CSV file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile type loads profile data from a text file where the
data is extected to be space-separated with the first column being
the grid-point value and the second column being the value of the
profile at that grid-point.
Any number of header lines can be included at the top of the file
by prefixing them with any of ``#!$%*``.
The format for the profile is:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "my profile": {
     "type": "from csv file",
     "units": "foos",
     "file path": "path/to/file"
   }


From Config File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile type extracts profile data directly from the configuration
data file. There are two options for this profile format.
The first specifies a single uniform value at every grid point:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "my profile": {
     "type": "from config file",
     "units": "bars",
     "uniform value": 12.3,
     "grid": {
       "name": "foo",
       "units": "bazes"
     }
   }


The second specifies values at each grid point in an array:


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my profile": {
     "type": "from config file",
     "units": "bars",
     "values": [ 12.3, 32.4, 103.2 ],
     "grid": {
       "name": "foo",
       "units": "bazes"
     }
   }


Solar Zenith Angle
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile is specifically for calculating the solar zenith angle
as a function of time. Its configuration takes the form:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "solar zenith angle": {
     "type": "solar zenith angle",
     "units": "degrees",
     "year" : 2002,
     "month": 3,
     "day": 21,
     "longitude": 0.0,
     "latitude": 0.0
   }


The latitude and longitude are in degrees. There is an optional
argument ``time zone`` that defaults to 0, and is an offset
in hours to adjust for a specific time zone relative to GMT.


Earth-Sun Distance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile is specifically for calculating the Earth-Sun distance
as a function of time. Its configuration takes the form:


.. code-block:: JSON

     "Earth-Sun distance": {
       "type": "Earth-Sun distance",
       "units": "AU",
       "year" : 2002,
       "month": 3,
       "day": 21
     }

There is an optional argument ``time zone`` that defaults to 0,
and is an offset in hours to adjust for a specific time zone
relative to GMT.


Other Profiles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The remaining profile types support legacy code from the original
implementation of TUV. These will be gradually removed as configurations
employing the general-use profile types are developed.

These can be used as follows (note that file paths are relative
to the root ``tuv-x/`` folder):


.. code-block:: JSON

      "O3": {
         "type": "O3",
         "units": "molecule cm-3",
         "file path": "data/profiles/atmosphere/ussa.ozone"
      },
      "air": {
         "type": "air",
         "units": "molecule cm-3",
         "file path": "data/profiles/atmosphere/ussa.dens"
      },
      "O2": {
         "type": "O2",
         "units": "molecule cm-3",
         "file path": "data/profiles/atmosphere/ussa.dens"
      },
      "extraterrestrial flux": {
         "type": "extraterrestrial flux",
         "units": "photon cm-2 s-1",
         "file path": ["data/profiles/solar/susim_hi.flx",
                      "data/profiles/solar/atlas3_1994_317_a.dat",
                      "data/profiles/solar/sao2010.solref.converted",
                      "data/profiles/solar/neckel.flx"],
         "interpolator": ["","","","interp4"]
      }


.. _configuration-radiation:

Radiative Transfer
------------------

Radiative transfer describes how the radiation field is calculated.
The general format for radiative transfer is:


.. code-block:: JSON

   "radiative transfer": {
     "cross sections": [
       {
         "name": "foo",
         "type": "base",
         "netcdf files": [ "my/data/file.nc" ]
       }
     ],
     "radiators": [
       {
         "name": "foo",
         "type": "base",
         "cross section": "foo",
         "vertical profile": "foo",
         "vertical profile units": "molecule cm-3"
       }
     ]
   }


The ``cross sections`` and ``radiators`` are required arrays.
The ``cross sections`` define the absorption cross sections
for the radiators.
Cross section configuration formats are described
:ref:`below <configuration-cross-sections>`.

The ``radiators`` define the atmospheric constituents that
should be considered in the calculation of the radiation
field.
Radiator configuration formats are described
:ref:`below <configuration-radiators>`.


.. _configuration-photolysis:

Photolysis Reactions
--------------------

The configuration for photolysis reactions takes the following form:


.. code-block:: JSON
   :force:

   "photolysis reactions": {
     "my first reaction": {
       "cross section": { ... },
       "quantum yield": { ... },
       "scaling factor": 1.3
     },
     "my second reaction": {
       "cross section": { ... },
       "quantum yield": { ... },
     }
   }


Each member of ``photolysis reactions`` describes a photolysis
reaction that TUV-x will calculate a rate constant for at runtime.
The key for each photolysis reaction is a user-defined name
that will be associated with the calculated rate constant,
and can be used for mapping to a chemistry solver or other
package.
Each reaction must have a ``cross section``, whose configuration
format is described :ref:`here <configuration-cross-sections>`.
Each reaction must also have a ``quantum yield``, whose
configuration is described :ref:`here <configuration-quantum-yields>`.
The ``scaling factor`` is a optional scaling factor that will be
applied to the calculated rate constant.

The file ``data/photolysis_rate_constants.json`` contains
configuration data for every photolysis rate constant that
can be calculated from data available in the ``data/``
folder.

.. _configuration-dose-rates:

Dose Rates
----------

The configuration for dose rates takes the following form:


.. code-block:: JSON
   :force:

   "dose rates": {
     "my first dose rate": {
       "weights": { ... }
     },
     "my second dose rate": {
       "weights": { ... }
     }
   }


Each member of ``dose rates`` describes a dose rate that
TUV-x will calculate at runtime.
The key for each dose rate is a user-defined name that
will be associated with the calculated rate.
Each dose rate must have a ``weights`` object that
defines a spectral weight, whose configuration format
is described :ref:`here <configuration-spectral-weights>`.


Additional Objects
------------------

These configuration JSON objects are used in one or more
of the six high-level JSON objects in the TUV-x data file.


.. _configuration-cross-sections:

Cross Sections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The configuration for a standard cross section is as
follows:

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "netcdf files": [ "path/to/my/netcdf/file.nc" ]
   }


The NetCDF file should be structured as follows::

   dimensions:
	    bins = NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS ;
	    parameters = 1 ;
   variables:
	    double wavelength(bins) ;
		     wavelength:units = "nm" ;
	    double cross_section_parameters(parameters, bins) ;


Here, ``NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS`` is the number of wavelength
bins the cross section values are provided on.

The ``cross_section_parameters`` array should hold the value
of the cross section at each wavelength.
TUV-x will perform interpolation of the cross section
data to the native wavelength grid.

A number of custom cross section types have been developed
when more complex algorithms are needed to calculate
cross sections.
These generally apply to a specific photolysis reaction.
Their configuration data formats are demonstrated
in ``data/photolysis_rate_constants.json``.

.. _configuration-quantum-yields:

Quantum Yields
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The configuration for a standard quantum yield can be of two forms.
The first describes a quantum yield that is a constant value at
all wavelengths:


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "constant value": 1.0
   }


The second describes a quantum yield that is read from a NetCDF
file:


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "netcdf files": [ "path/to/my/netcdf/file.nc" ]
   }


The NetCDF file should be structured as follows::

   dimensions:
	   bins = NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS ;
	   parameters = 1 ;
   variables:
	   double wavelength(bins) ;
		   wavelength:units = "nm" ;
	   double quantum_yield_parameters(parameters, bins) ;
		   quantum_yield_parameters:units = "fraction" ;


Here, ``NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS`` is the number of wavelength
bins the quantum yield values are provided on.

The ``quantum_yield_parameters`` array should hold the value
of the quantum yield at each wavelength.
TUV-x will perform interpolation of the quantum yield data
to the native wavelength grid.

A number of custom quantum yield types have been developed
when more complex algorithms are needed to calculate
quantum yields.
These generally apply to a specific photolysis reaction.
Their configuration data formats are demonstrated
in ``data/photolysis_rate_constants.json``.


.. _configuration-radiators:

Radiators
^^^^^^^^^

Radiators represent atmospheric constituents that attenuate
solar radiation and will be considered in calculations of the
radiation field.
The configuration data format for standard radiators is as
follows:

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "name": "foo",
     "cross section": "foo",
     "vertical profile": "foo",
     "vertical profile units": "molecule cm-3"
   }


The ``cross section`` must be the name of a cross
section in the list of ``cross sections`` in the
:ref:`configuration-radiation` object.
The vertical profile must be the name of a profile with
the provided units that is present in the list of
:ref:`configuration-profiles`.
These profiles should describe the concentration of
the constituent on the ``height`` grid.

A special radiator type exists for aerosols, which
provides fixed optical depths at each wavelength.
An example of the aerosol configuration is provided
below.


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "name": "aerosols",
     "type": "aerosol",
     "optical depths": [2.40e-01, 1.06e-01, 4.56e-02, 1.91e-02, 1.01e-02, 7.63e-03,
                        5.38e-03, 5.00e-03, 5.15e-03, 4.94e-03, 4.82e-03, 4.51e-03,
                        4.74e-03, 4.37e-03, 4.28e-03, 4.03e-03, 3.83e-03, 3.78e-03,
                        3.88e-03, 3.08e-03, 2.26e-03, 1.64e-03, 1.23e-03, 9.45e-04,
                        7.49e-04, 6.30e-04, 5.50e-04, 4.21e-04, 3.22e-04, 2.48e-04,
                        1.90e-04, 1.45e-04, 1.11e-04, 8.51e-05, 6.52e-05, 5.00e-05,
                        3.83e-05, 2.93e-05, 2.25e-05, 1.72e-05, 1.32e-05, 1.01e-05,
                        7.72e-06, 5.91e-06, 4.53e-06, 3.46e-06, 2.66e-06, 2.04e-06,
                        1.56e-06, 1.19e-06, 9.14e-07],
     "single scattering albedo": 0.99,
     "asymmetry factor": 0.61,
     "550 nm optical depth": 0.235
   }


The optical depths are expected to be on the ``wavelength``
grid.


.. _configuration-spectral-weights:

Spectral Weights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Standard spectral weight types load spectral weights from a NetCDF
file.
Their configuration format is as follows:


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "netcdf files": [ "path/to/my/netcdf/file.nc" ]
   }

The NetCDF file should be structured as follows::

   dimensions:
	   bins = NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS ;
	   parameters = 1 ;
   variables:
	   double wavelength(bins) ;
		   wavelength:units = "nm" ;
	   double spectral_weight_parameters(parameters, bins) ;
		   spectral_weight_parameters:hdr = "" ;


Here, ``NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS`` is the number of wavelength
bins the spectral weight values are provided on.

The ``spectral_weight_parameters`` array should hold the value
of the spectral weight at each wavelength.
TUV-x will perform interpolation of the spectral weight  data
to the native wavelength grid.

A number of custom spectral weight types have been developed
when more complex algorithms are needed to calculate
spectral weights.
Their configuration data formats are demonstrated
in ``data/dose_rates.json``.

Commit message:

50 document api profiles (#128)
* starting profile documentation

* adding profile documentation

* conforming profiles to tuvx style

docs/source/configuration.rst, after:

.. Configuration format descriptions for TUV-x

Configuration
=============

The TUV-x configuration JSON file is used to set up TUV-x to calculate
the set of photolysis rate constants and/or dose rates that you are
interested in.
It also allows you to specify details about how these
are calculated (solver options, which absorbing species should be
considered in determining the radiation field, etc.) and the
conditions they should be calculated for (temperature, solar flux,
solar zenith angle, etc.).

Configuration data for specific components of TUV-x may
include paths to needed data files. These paths can be absolute
or relative to the folder you run the ``tuvx`` executable in.
(There are no hard-coded paths to data files in the TUV-x source
code; they are all specified in the JSON configuration file.)

TUV-x JSON data include a number of required and optional
elements.
Users can additionally decorate the JSON file with
custom elements by using a "``__``" prefix for the custom key.
TUV-x will ignore all key-value pairs whose key includes this
prefix.
These can be useful for including notes, descriptions,
or references.
They can also be useful if TUV-x is embedded
in an application that needs to attach specific information
to TUV-x objects.

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "tuv object": {
       "a TUV-x required key": "foo",
       "a TUV-x optional key": "sometimes bar",
       "__my note": "TUV-x will ignore this",
       "__user provided data" : {
         "will TUV-x ignore this object?": true
       }
     }
   }


The TUV-x configuration JSON file has six objects:

.. code-block:: JSON
   :force:

   {
     "O2 absorption": { ... },
     "grids": { ... },
     "profiles": { ... },
     "radiative transfer": { ... },
     "photolysis rate constants": { ... },
     "dose rates": { ... }
   }


We use elipses (``...``) here and throughout this section for
JSON data that are described in a separate sub-section of this
page.

The first four objects
(:ref:`O2 absorption <configuration-o2-absorption>`,
:ref:`grids <configuration-grids>`,
:ref:`profiles <configuration-profiles>`, and
:ref:`radiative transfer <configuration-radiation>`)
are required for every TUV-x run.
The last two objects
(:ref:`photolysis rate constants <configuration-photolysis>` and
:ref:`dose rates <configuration-dose-rates>`)
are optional and allow the user to optionally
calculate only photolysis rates, only dose rates, or both.

The following sections describe each of these six JSON
object.

.. _configuration-o2-absorption:

O2 Absorption
-------------

This object describes how TUV-x calculates the special
Lyman--Alpha and Shumann--Runge absorption bands for O2.
It has a single required data member that provides the
path to a text file containing parameters needed in
these calculations:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "O2 absorption": {
     "cross section parameters file": "data/cross_sections/O2_parameters.txt"
   }


This file is a hold-over from the original TUV and has
not yet been converted into a NetCDF file. It can be found
in the location shown above relative to the ``tuv-x/`` root
directory.


.. _configuration-grids:

Grids
-----

Grids define axes along which TUV-x data are distributed or calculations
are performed.
Depending on your use case, certain grids may or may not
need to be included.
At minimum, you will need to include a ``height``
grid (units: ``km``) that defines the vertical grid TUV-x operates on,
and a ``wavelength`` grid (units: ``nm``), that defines the wavelength
bins for which optical property data is provided.
For stand-alone TUV-x, you will also need to provide a ``time`` grid
(units: ``hours``) that provides the time of day for which to calculate
the photolysis and/or dose rates.

There are two key-value pairs that are required for every grid, ``type``
and ``units``.
The ``type`` is a string that describes how the grid data is specified,
and must be one of ``equal interval``,
``from csv file``, and ``from config file``.
These types are described below.
The ``units`` are the units for the grid data and are used to ensure
consistency throughout the configuration data and
with expectations in the code.

Equal Interval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This grid type is defined by start and end points, and a cell width:


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my grid": {
     "type": "equal interval",
     "units": "foos",
     "begins at": 12.0,
     "ends at": 112.0,
     "cell delta": 10.0
   }


From CSV File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This grid type is defined by data from a text file.
The first line of the file is ignored and can be used for header info.
The remaining lines should each include a single real number
that will be used to define the grid.
Values should be monotonic and increasing.


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my grid": {
     "type": "from csv file",
     "units": "bars",
     "file path": "path/to/file"
   }


From Config File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The values for each cell of this grid type are included directly in
the configuration file.
Values sholud be monotonic and increasing.


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my grid": {
     "type": "from config file",
     "units": "foos",
     "values": [ 1.0, 7.0, 12.5 ]
   }


.. _configuration-profiles:

Profiles
--------

Profiles define parameters along a :ref:`grid <configuration-grids>`.
Similar to grids, depending on your use case, certain profiles may
or may not need to be included.
At minimum, you will need to include the key-value pairs listed
in the following table.

=========================  ==============
profile                    grid
=========================  ==============
``temperature``            ``height``
``solar zenith angle``     ``time``
``Earth-Sun distance``     ``time``
``surface albedo``         ``wavelength``
``extraterrestrial flux``  ``wavelength``
``air``                    ``height``
=========================  ==============

The air profile defines the number density of air
as a function of height.

In addition to the required profiles, profiles of atmospheric
constituents that affect the radiation field by absorbing or
scattering light should be included when these exist as
:ref:`radiators <configuration-radiators>` in the
:ref:`radiative transfer <configuration-radiation>` object.

As with grids, there are two key-value pairs required for every
profile, ``type`` and ``units``.
The ``units`` are the units for the profile data and are used to ensure
consistency throughout the configuration data and
with expectations in the code.
The ``type`` is a string that describes how the profile data is specified.
There are two general-use types that can be used for any profile,
``from csv file`` and ``from config file``.
In addition, there are several profile types that are useful for describing
specific types of profiles, ``O2``, ``O3``, ``air``, ``solar zenith angle``,
``Earth-Sun distance``, and ``extraterrestrial flux``.

The specific profile types are described below.

.. _configuration-profiles-from-csv:

From CSV file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile type loads profile data from a text file where the
data is extected to be space-separated with the first column being
the grid-point value and the second column being the value of the
profile at that grid-point.
Any number of header lines can be included at the top of the file
by prefixing them with any of ``#!$%*``.
The format for the profile is:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "my profile": {
     "type": "from csv file",
     "units": "foos",
     "file path": "path/to/file"
   }


.. _configuration-profiles-from-config:

From Config File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile type extracts profile data directly from the configuration
data file. There are two options for this profile format.
The first specifies a single uniform value at every grid point:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "my profile": {
     "type": "from config file",
     "units": "bars",
     "uniform value": 12.3,
     "grid": {
       "name": "foo",
       "units": "bazes"
     }
   }


The second specifies values at each grid point in an array:


.. code-block:: JSON

   "my profile": {
     "type": "from config file",
     "units": "bars",
     "values": [ 12.3, 32.4, 103.2 ],
     "grid": {
       "name": "foo",
       "units": "bazes"
     }
   }


Solar Zenith Angle
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile is specifically for calculating the solar zenith angle
as a function of time. Its configuration takes the form:

.. code-block:: JSON

   "solar zenith angle": {
     "type": "solar zenith angle",
     "units": "degrees",
     "year" : 2002,
     "month": 3,
     "day": 21,
     "longitude": 0.0,
     "latitude": 0.0
   }


The latitude and longitude are in degrees. There is an optional
argument ``time zone`` that defaults to 0, and is an offset
in hours to adjust for a specific time zone relative to GMT.


Earth-Sun Distance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This profile is specifically for calculating the Earth-Sun distance
as a function of time. Its configuration takes the form:


.. code-block:: JSON

     "Earth-Sun distance": {
       "type": "Earth-Sun distance",
       "units": "AU",
       "year" : 2002,
       "month": 3,
       "day": 21
     }

There is an optional argument ``time zone`` that defaults to 0,
and is an offset in hours to adjust for a specific time zone
relative to GMT.


Other Profiles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The remaining profile types support legacy code from the original
implementation of TUV. These will be gradually removed as configurations
employing the general-use profile types are developed.

These can be used as follows (note that file paths are relative
to the root ``tuv-x/`` folder):


.. code-block:: JSON

      "O3": {
         "type": "O3",
         "units": "molecule cm-3",
         "file path": "data/profiles/atmosphere/ussa.ozone"
      },
      "air": {
         "type": "air",
         "units": "molecule cm-3",
         "file path": "data/profiles/atmosphere/ussa.dens"
      },
      "O2": {
         "type": "O2",
         "units": "molecule cm-3",
         "file path": "data/profiles/atmosphere/ussa.dens"
      },
      "extraterrestrial flux": {
         "type": "extraterrestrial flux",
         "units": "photon cm-2 s-1",
         "file path": ["data/profiles/solar/susim_hi.flx",
                      "data/profiles/solar/atlas3_1994_317_a.dat",
                      "data/profiles/solar/sao2010.solref.converted",
                      "data/profiles/solar/neckel.flx"],
         "interpolator": ["","","","interp4"]
      }


.. _configuration-radiation:

Radiative Transfer
------------------

Radiative transfer describes how the radiation field is calculated.
The general format for radiative transfer is:


.. code-block:: JSON

   "radiative transfer": {
     "cross sections": [
       {
         "name": "foo",
         "type": "base",
         "netcdf files": [ "my/data/file.nc" ]
       }
     ],
     "radiators": [
       {
         "name": "foo",
         "type": "base",
         "cross section": "foo",
         "vertical profile": "foo",
         "vertical profile units": "molecule cm-3"
       }
     ]
   }


The ``cross sections`` and ``radiators`` are required arrays.
The ``cross sections`` define the absorption cross sections
for the radiators.
Cross section configuration formats are described
:ref:`below <configuration-cross-sections>`.

The ``radiators`` define the atmospheric constituents that
should be considered in the calculation of the radiation
field.
Radiator configuration formats are described
:ref:`below <configuration-radiators>`.


.. _configuration-photolysis:

Photolysis Reactions
--------------------

The configuration for photolysis reactions takes the following form:


.. code-block:: JSON
   :force:

   "photolysis reactions": {
     "my first reaction": {
       "cross section": { ... },
       "quantum yield": { ... },
       "scaling factor": 1.3
     },
     "my second reaction": {
       "cross section": { ... },
       "quantum yield": { ... },
     }
   }


Each member of ``photolysis reactions`` describes a photolysis
reaction that TUV-x will calculate a rate constant for at runtime.
The key for each photolysis reaction is a user-defined name
that will be associated with the calculated rate constant,
and can be used for mapping to a chemistry solver or other
package.
Each reaction must have a ``cross section``, whose configuration
format is described :ref:`here <configuration-cross-sections>`.
Each reaction must also have a ``quantum yield``, whose
configuration is described :ref:`here <configuration-quantum-yields>`.
The ``scaling factor`` is a optional scaling factor that will be
applied to the calculated rate constant.

The file ``data/photolysis_rate_constants.json`` contains
configuration data for every photolysis rate constant that
can be calculated from data available in the ``data/``
folder.

.. _configuration-dose-rates:

Dose Rates
----------

The configuration for dose rates takes the following form:


.. code-block:: JSON
   :force:

   "dose rates": {
     "my first dose rate": {
       "weights": { ... }
     },
     "my second dose rate": {
       "weights": { ... }
     }
   }


Each member of ``dose rates`` describes a dose rate that
TUV-x will calculate at runtime.
The key for each dose rate is a user-defined name that
will be associated with the calculated rate.
Each dose rate must have a ``weights`` object that
defines a spectral weight, whose configuration format
is described :ref:`here <configuration-spectral-weights>`.


Additional Objects
------------------

These configuration JSON objects are used in one or more
of the six high-level JSON objects in the TUV-x data file.


.. _configuration-cross-sections:

Cross Sections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The configuration for a standard cross section is as
follows:

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "netcdf files": [ "path/to/my/netcdf/file.nc" ]
   }


The NetCDF file should be structured as follows::

   dimensions:
	    bins = NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS ;
	    parameters = 1 ;
   variables:
	    double wavelength(bins) ;
		     wavelength:units = "nm" ;
	    double cross_section_parameters(parameters, bins) ;


Here, ``NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS`` is the number of wavelength
bins the cross section values are provided on.

The ``cross_section_parameters`` array should hold the value
of the cross section at each wavelength.
TUV-x will perform interpolation of the cross section
data to the native wavelength grid.

A number of custom cross section types have been developed
when more complex algorithms are needed to calculate
cross sections.
These generally apply to a specific photolysis reaction.
Their configuration data formats are demonstrated
in ``data/photolysis_rate_constants.json``.

.. _configuration-quantum-yields:

Quantum Yields
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The configuration for a standard quantum yield can be of two forms.
The first describes a quantum yield that is a constant value at
all wavelengths:


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "constant value": 1.0
   }


The second describes a quantum yield that is read from a NetCDF
file:


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "netcdf files": [ "path/to/my/netcdf/file.nc" ]
   }


The NetCDF file should be structured as follows::

   dimensions:
	   bins = NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS ;
	   parameters = 1 ;
   variables:
	   double wavelength(bins) ;
		   wavelength:units = "nm" ;
	   double quantum_yield_parameters(parameters, bins) ;
		   quantum_yield_parameters:units = "fraction" ;


Here, ``NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS`` is the number of wavelength
bins the quantum yield values are provided on.

The ``quantum_yield_parameters`` array should hold the value
of the quantum yield at each wavelength.
TUV-x will perform interpolation of the quantum yield data
to the native wavelength grid.

A number of custom quantum yield types have been developed
when more complex algorithms are needed to calculate
quantum yields.
These generally apply to a specific photolysis reaction.
Their configuration data formats are demonstrated
in ``data/photolysis_rate_constants.json``.


.. _configuration-radiators:

Radiators
^^^^^^^^^

Radiators represent atmospheric constituents that attenuate
solar radiation and will be considered in calculations of the
radiation field.
The configuration data format for standard radiators is as
follows:

.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "name": "foo",
     "cross section": "foo",
     "vertical profile": "foo",
     "vertical profile units": "molecule cm-3"
   }


The ``cross section`` must be the name of a cross
section in the list of ``cross sections`` in the
:ref:`configuration-radiation` object.
The vertical profile must be the name of a profile with
the provided units that is present in the list of
:ref:`configuration-profiles`.
These profiles should describe the concentration of
the constituent on the ``height`` grid.

A special radiator type exists for aerosols, which
provides fixed optical depths at each wavelength.
An example of the aerosol configuration is provided
below.


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "name": "aerosols",
     "type": "aerosol",
     "optical depths": [2.40e-01, 1.06e-01, 4.56e-02, 1.91e-02, 1.01e-02, 7.63e-03,
                        5.38e-03, 5.00e-03, 5.15e-03, 4.94e-03, 4.82e-03, 4.51e-03,
                        4.74e-03, 4.37e-03, 4.28e-03, 4.03e-03, 3.83e-03, 3.78e-03,
                        3.88e-03, 3.08e-03, 2.26e-03, 1.64e-03, 1.23e-03, 9.45e-04,
                        7.49e-04, 6.30e-04, 5.50e-04, 4.21e-04, 3.22e-04, 2.48e-04,
                        1.90e-04, 1.45e-04, 1.11e-04, 8.51e-05, 6.52e-05, 5.00e-05,
                        3.83e-05, 2.93e-05, 2.25e-05, 1.72e-05, 1.32e-05, 1.01e-05,
                        7.72e-06, 5.91e-06, 4.53e-06, 3.46e-06, 2.66e-06, 2.04e-06,
                        1.56e-06, 1.19e-06, 9.14e-07],
     "single scattering albedo": 0.99,
     "asymmetry factor": 0.61,
     "550 nm optical depth": 0.235
   }


The optical depths are expected to be on the ``wavelength``
grid.


.. _configuration-spectral-weights:

Spectral Weights
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Standard spectral weight types load spectral weights from a NetCDF
file.
Their configuration format is as follows:


.. code-block:: JSON

   {
     "type": "base",
     "netcdf files": [ "path/to/my/netcdf/file.nc" ]
   }

The NetCDF file should be structured as follows::

   dimensions:
	   bins = NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS ;
	   parameters = 1 ;
   variables:
	   double wavelength(bins) ;
		   wavelength:units = "nm" ;
	   double spectral_weight_parameters(parameters, bins) ;
		   spectral_weight_parameters:hdr = "" ;


Here, ``NUMBER_OF_WAVELENGTH_BINS`` is the number of wavelength
bins the spectral weight values are provided on.

The ``spectral_weight_parameters`` array should hold the value
of the spectral weight at each wavelength.
TUV-x will perform interpolation of the spectral weight  data
to the native wavelength grid.

A number of custom spectral weight types have been developed
when more complex algorithms are needed to calculate
spectral weights.
Their configuration data formats are demonstrated
in ``data/dose_rates.json``.
